---
title:  "C++ FAQ"
excerpt: "This post(note) summarized some FAQs asked by myself during my working experiences."
# subtitle: " "
tag: "C/C++"
layout: post-with-toc
---

Useful links:

- [Bjarne Stroustrup's C++ Style and Technique FAQ](https://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq2.html)

### Can Virtual Classes(Interfaces) in C++ have Member Variables?

Strictly speaking, there is no such thing as a "virtual class" or "interface" in C++. If there is, it is artificial, i.e., developer-enforced. Generally, an interface has these characteristics:

- Declared within a namespace and may have public or private accessibility. Only public interfaces are emitted to metadata.
- It can include properties, methods and events.
- All interface members are implicitly public and virtual.
- Fields and static members are *not* permitted.
- Types that are used as properties, method parameters, or return values can only be fundamental types and enum class types.

So the answer is

- **No**, if you want an interface.
- **Yes**, if you just use abstract classes, but make them private and use public getters and setters.

Reference:

1. [Can Virtual Classes in C++ have Member Variables?
](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6052131/can-virtual-classes-in-c-have-member-variables)

### What is the Non-virtual Interface Design Pattern and When to Use It?

The essence of the non-virtual interface pattern is that you have **private virtual** functions, which are then called(invoked) by **public non-virtual** functions (the non-virtual interface).

Advantage: The base class has more control over its behavior (the derived class can override less part of the whole thing).

Reference:

1. [Non-virtual interface design pattern in C#/C++](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6481260/non-virtual-interface-design-pattern-in-c-c).

### Shall I use virtual constructors/destructors?

There are no virtual constructors. From [Bjarne Stroustrup's C++ Style and Technique FAQ](https://www.stroustrup.com/bs_faq2.html#virtual-ctor)

> A virtual call is a mechanism to get work done given partial information. In particular, "virtual" allows us to call a function knowing only any interfaces and not the exact type of the object. To create an object you need complete information. In particular, you need to know the exact type of what you want to create. Consequently, a "call to a constructor" cannot be virtual.

However virtual destructors are especially useful when you might potentially delete an instance of a derived class through a pointer to a base class:

```c++
class Base {
    // some virtual methods
};

class Derived : public Base {
    ~Derived() {
        // Do important cleanup
    }
}

Base *b = new Derived();
// use b
delete b; // **Here's the problem!**
```

**Always** make base classes have virtual destructors when they are meant to be manipulated polymorphically. (Effective C++ Item 7)

Reference:

1. [When to use virtual destructors?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/461203/when-to-use-virtual-destructors)

### What Are Static Polymorphism and Dynmaic Polymorphism?

todo.
